It should be noted, that I have had a great experience using Python for programming and working on machine learning projects, for its unparalleled flexibility and comprehensive libraries.

In Competitive Programming, when it comes to C or C++, the high-level computation can be implemented with least instructions, however, with python, the user can opt for the programming language and its libraries which will help solve the problem within time boundaries. I usually choose Python as the primary programming language, especially for programming contest projects implemented in C. Python has this syntax advantage where it is often less verbose compared to other languages without sacrificing the efficiency of the algorithms. With the language being more flexible and less cluttered with syntax, I am able to produce high-quality programs fairly fast where the majority/most of my time is spent on solving the real problem and not on the Thai language. The format makes the language more popular during competitions when accuracy and speed are highly regarded, and efficiency in algorithms and data structure is an advantage.

Despite Excel being useful in handling data for simple machine learning projects, Python becomes the best environment for me when these grow complex. I was working with predictive models with Python using number crunching algorithms such as linear regression and decision trees, as well as neural networks. The reason for this is the ease of spending time on higher value/important tasks instead of coding due to the integration of robust libraries that include Tensorflow and Pytorch which I have the opportunity to experiment with deep learning.
